In this lesson we'll start building our project by installing our fresh Laravel project and then creating
Git repository for our project, then configuring the database setting and generating scaffold Authentication
all right to start off.
Let's go ahead and open our terminal and create new Laravel project by typing laravel new and then the
name will be laravel dash Q A or you can name it whatever like hit return
this will install packages that laravel depends upon and it usually takes a second or so to install
all right
After we've successfully created our new laravel project now let's change directory to it.
So cd change directory and I'll change to directory laravel-qa.
Then here we can create Git repo by firstly initialize the git repository for this project.
So git init
Next we'll need to add all files in our project to something called staging area git add space
dot. and lastly commit all files to our repository
Git commit specify a message
Initial commit
all right
We have a local git repository for our project and it will keep track of the changes of our code.
Now we can create a remote repository for our project in hosting service providers such as Github.com
or Bitbucket.org
So if you want to create a private repository then I suggest you to choose bitbucket  because it allows
you to create unlimited public and private repositories for free.
If you create private repository in GitHub
then you need to pay for $7 per month. For this course we are gonna create public repo
So choosing github is fine.
All right
Let's switch over to our browser and I'll enter
Github.com.
Actually I already have signed in here.
So please sign in to your account and if you don't have a account for github
then you simply register here is totally free.
So here I can create a new repository by hitting this plus button then choose new repository.
And here the repository name will be let's say laravel-qa
then I'll enter the description with let's say question and answer
application built with
Laravel five. The repo will be public and that's it.
I'll hit the create repository
okay here my repository has been created and here we can follow this instruction to push our local
repo to this remote repository because we already have our repository.
We'll follow this one.
I'm gonna copy this one
which is basically add remote URL to our local repo
and I'll paste it here.
And then I'm gonna copy this one and paste here
if we have a prompt that asking you to enter your email and password
that's because you need to set up the SSH key in your GitHub account.
So for now just enter your email and password for your GitHub account and later you can googling how
to set up the SSH key. Here it pushed everything in the master branch which is the default branch
in local repo to the origin which refers to the remote repository.
Now let's head over to our remote repository and refresh the page
all right here
My local repository has been successfully pushed or uploaded to my remote repository.
I hope you also successful pushing your repository to your remote repository in GitHub.
Okay great. all right
the next thing we should do since we are going to utilize Laravel Mix for asset compilation
so let's also install nodejs packages that needed by Laravel mix.
We can switch to our terminal and type npm install. Hit return
now.
Well NPM  downloading all dependency packages because usually it takes sometimes so let's do something
else.
Let's open new terminal
and here lets generate authentication scaffolding by typing php artisan make:auth hit return.
All right
Authentication scaffolding generated successfully.
So basically this command will add a special route for authentication, generate a Home controller and
generate the views for authentication.
All right.
Now let's create a new MySQL database for our project. Here
I'll do that using mysql CLI client tool, but of course you can also use graphical user interface
tools such as PHPMyAdmin
SequalPro or other tools.
So mysql -u root here in my machine
I have password for the root. So I'll specify -p and then -e probably it stands for execute and
the single command to be executed is create create database laravel_qa. Hit return
and I'll enter my password.
Okay
great.
So now that we have our new database laravel_qa
Now let's configure our database setting in .env file. So let's open our project in our editor
here
I'll be using Visual studio code
so code
all right here
let's open the .env file
first Let's change the DB_DATABASE to laravel_qa.
Then the DB_USERNAME would be root. And the password in my machine is 063. Save and one last thing
that I'll need to do before running the migrations because currently when I'm recording this video mysql
version in my machine is old, so I'll need to open config database
jump to mysql
and here I'll remove mb4 from charset and collation.
So just utf8 and a utf8_unicode_ci. So if I were not doing this I would run into error
Specified key was too long when I ran the migration.
But as long as you are running mysql version 5.7.7 or higher or MariaDB above
10.2.2
then you don't need to do this stuff.
Okay let's go to our terminal and run the migration
by typing php artisan
migrate
so this is the error
Specified key was too long. And I forgot to save this, save. And here I need to fresh the migration
fresh hit return
all right
it created users table and password reset stable.
Now if I switch to my first terminal.
All right
the dependency packages that needed by laravel mix successfully installed. Just to make sure that the
project is working fine here in my terminal
I'll start the server by typing php artisan serve
Here in my browser let me open
localhost:8000
There we go
the Laravel welcome page is showing. All right
I think that's enough for this lesson
but before we end this lesson, let's save our file changes to our  git repository.
So let's switch over to our terminal
and here we can see the changes
by typing git status.
So this whole files should be committed to our repository.
Let's add all files
Git add .
and then commit
all changes git commit and describe the changes
Generate auth scaffolding and install NPM packages.
And lastly let's push our changes to our remote repository.
git push origin master
Okay great
in the next lesson we will create database schema as well as a model for our questions.
So I'll see you in a second.